Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
Rouge cakes soon mould,
and the flowers wait for no one.
No sooner are you done picking,
than they bloom again.
When the rains come,
work continues into the early hours.
Each day flew by,
Pleasantly tired, I thought about
the flower-pickers of old.
If I could've worked
like this as a child,
my school essays would've been
really interesting.
Mum, I need 5,000 yen.
5,000 yen? I can't give you that.
You said you'd buy me new sneakers.
Are they that much?
Nonsense.
They're Pumas.
- Pumas?
- It's a brand.
I'm not sure.
There must be cheaper ones.
How about the ones you've got?
Nobody wears them now.
Everyone's getting Pumas.
Who's everyone?
Kako, Megu, Yachan, Nonchan.
That's only four people.
Everyone's wearing them!
No. You never do your chores.
Did you ask for a dress for
your Barbie Doll?
Didn't you promise to ask only at
Christmas and your birthday?
You always spoil her.
Is that right, Taeko?
All of a sudden,
the ten year-old me was back.
But...
Yaeko got a kimono and
it wasn't even her graduation.
It's for tea-ceremony.
You keep asking for
lots of little stuff,
we get one or two big things.
Right?
Yep.
Stop that.
Always picky about food.
Dad loves the onions, right?
Anyway, that kimono will be
yours in the end.
Always hand-me-downs.
- Some people don't get anything.
- Exactly.
Then give me that enamel purse.
Didn't you give it to her yet?
You're too old for that.
Give it to her.
I don't want it.
Keep the stupid purse.
Then I won't give it to you.
I'm not buying you a new one.
Fine.
Good. I actually really like it.
I hate it.
Ready for dinner. Take this away.
See, has to be thrown away.
What a waste.
Don't throw it away! Please Mother.
It's your fault.
Finish it yourself next time.
You three are so selfish.
Father, buy me an enamel purse.
Yaeko won't give me hers.
You said you didn't want it.
Yeah, but...
You said it, you have to do it.
Hurry up and get ready.
I'll wear these!
Why is Yaeko coming?
You said it was just the three of us.
Because I finished my homework.
Is that a problem?
It's Chinese food.
The more the merrier.
Grandma's not coming.
She doesn't eat oily food.
If you don't want to come, stay here.
We're going Taeko.
Come on slowpoke.
I don't have a purse.
Lend her that enamel one.
Here.
Ouch.
Let's go.
I'm not going.
Okay. Let's go Mother.
Stay with Grandma then.
Not coming Taeko?
No I'm not.
We're off then.
I'm coming too!
No shoes!
Father please.
A button came off.
We didn't go out, of course.
My face was swollen and a cold towel
didn't stop the stinging.
That night I couldn't sleep
wondering why it was always me.
Figuring I must've been adopted
I cried myself to sleep.
Was it the first time he hit you?
Yes, the first and only time.
Dad slaps me often... well, sometimes.
Maybe that's easier.
When it's only once,
you can't stop thinking why.
It's hard to imagine you
a selfish brat.
A spoiled brat.
I wasn't just fussy about
onions, either.
Now I don't feel like I'm that bad.
Wait a second!
Your poor Mum.
I shouldn't encourage you.
I'm giving up on the Pumas.
Good girl.
Maybe I'll slip you some pocket money.
Hooray!
Hey!
100 yen each.
Taeko...
Tomorrow...
Let's go for a drive to Zao.
- Zao?
- Yes.
You went to Yamadera
last year, right?
The family said it was okay.
The views at Zao were beautiful.
But Zao had become famous
and touristy.
How come you're not married?
Do you find that strange?
Well, no, not really.
Lots of women work now.
Most of my friends are single.
Oh, is that right?
That's right.
I see.
It's true.
Right.
Really. It's very common.
Toshio?
In elementary school, could you
do fractions?
When they said reverse the numerator
and denominator, could you do it?
I don't remember.
I wasn't bad at math though.
I see.
Lucky you.
I bet you don't remember
'cause it was easy.
Maybe. Why do you ask?
It seems that people who could do it
went on to have easy lives.
One girl, completely average
...not even good at math,
always could do it perfect right away.
She grew up really normal
and now has two kids.
I was no good at it.
Not smart enough to know when to quit.
Room 5, Taeko Okajima. 25 points
Before the test...
...we had art class.
And... um... we did blow pictures.
Blow pictures?
Yes. We drop paint on the paper...
and blow patterns in it.
And?
You blow like this,
really hard, right?
Yes?
So, I got a headache.
From blowing so hard.
That's why you did so badly?
That's right.
I see.
Do you know the answers now?
The correct answers?
Well...
Have Yaeko help you with them.
Yaeko?!
That's right.
Or Nanako, whichever.
I'll ask Nanako.
Nanako's not back yet.
Can I wait til after dinner?
I'll ask Yaeko...
Mother!
Mother! Mother!
What is this?!
How on earth?
Please teach her.
She doesn't seem to get it.
But this is beyond belief!
That's why I'm asking you...
Is she alright in the head?
Just help her.
Normally this is easy.
But that child's not normal!
Taeko, your sister's going to help.
You had a headache from blowing,
didn't you?
Sit.
Say your times table from the top.
I know that.
I'm in fifth grade already!
Then why so many mistakes?!
It's dividing fractions.
Just flip the top
and the bottom and multiply.
They taught you that, right?
Then why do you get it wrong?
Yaeko, one step at a time.
What's dividing a fraction
by a fraction anyway?
Two-thirds of an apple
divided by a quarter means...
how would this divide
between four people, right?
So, it's one, two, three,
four, five, six...
one-sixth each, right?
No, no, no, no. That's multiplication.
How come it's less when you multiply?
Two-thirds of an apple
divided by a quarter...
Anyway!
Forget about apples...
just remember to inverse and multiply.
Is her sister in Takarazuka?
No, S. K. D.
- She got "D" in math.
- "D"?
Yes, and just barely.
If she got half right,
it'd be worth scolding her.
Right.
Should you get her IQ checked?
They said it was fine
when she started.
Maybe she turned dumb?
Remember she fell downstairs
as a baby?
Right, in her walker!
I thought she was dead.
It was just a bump.
It's affecting her now.
That's it!
Nonsense.
She's just no good at math.
She chats too much in class.
If she'd just listen,
even an idiot can do it.
It's only two more years
until Junior High.
Two-thirds of this apple,
divided by a quarter...
I can't even picture it.
Two-thirds of this,
into a quarter makes it...
Even now, dividing fractions
is difficult.
We farmers give up too easily.
We just yield to the flow and
follow what they do in the cities.
Let's rethink the real
meaning of prosperity.
Return to the old ways of farming.
Wow...
So, that explains the organic farming?
I'm just quoting my friend.
But I agree with it.
It's great the way you hold onto
your memories of math class.
It wasn't meant to impress you.
People say you work
in a great place
but I could never give myself
up to it completely.
I really admire
your devotion to farming.
You're being sarcastic?
Of course not!
There aren't many people like you.
Farming's in total decline, right?
So we can't just carry on as normal.
We've got to think about the future.
We help each other out,
cheer one another along,
otherwise we can't keep it up.
Taeko do you ski?
I've been with friends a few times.
Come next winter. I'll teach you.
Are you good?
No, but I'm an instructor there.
An instructor? You must be great.
All my friends are too. It's nothing.
At last, we're in the
middle of nowhere.
"Nowhere" huh?
Sorry. I didn't mean it like that.
Interesting point though.
City people see the trees and rivers
and are grateful for "nature".
But what you see here
is all made by man.
By man?
Farmers.
- That wood?
- Yes.
- Those trees?
- That stream?
- Yes.
Every bit has its history,
not just the fields and rice paddies,
someone's Great-Great Grandpa
planted it, or cleared it,
gathered firewood
or picked mushrooms there.
I see.
Mankind battles nature
and receives from it.
They evolve together,
and create this scenery.
So without man, this wouldn't exist?
Farmers can't exist without nature.
So they've always taken great care
to give her a helping hand in return.
A collaboration between
man and nature...
That's the heart of country life.
That's why I feel so at home.
I didn't grow up here,
but somehow always felt...
my soul was at home here.
So that's it...
My back aches.
What's so great about organic farming?
Only the theory. Like I said...
giving nature a hand is hard work.
Things haven't changed
in a hundred years.
No, even "organic" rice
uses weed-killer.
There's not enough labour
to weed by hand.
You're really working hard.
How about some tea?
Fantastic.
I felt like a break.
Toshio let me try
a variety of things...
...until I felt I knew
all about country life.
That's great...
"Behold, the crows fly home.
First one..."
At last I can say this
in the right setting.
It was my line in a school play.
I was "Village Child A".
Oh, I see.
I only ever had small roles too.
And you Naoko?
Only lead roles,
since there are so few of us.
These days people leave
and go to the cities.
And now there are fewer kids.
I see. But getting the big
roles must be fun.
Not really. I prefer sports.
I'm a pretty fast runner.
Good for you.
I was always mediocre.
The sports version
of "Village Child A"
Still, I'll never forget that line
as long as I live.
It was going to make me a star.
A star?
Yes.
What kind of star?
That tiny role?
Yes.
Even though you weren't the lead?
Because I was the most enthusiastic.
Cause you were the cutest?
No, not that!
I rehearsed endlessly
in front of the mirror.
Even for "Village Child A"...
The line was so short,
I felt something missing.
"Behold, the crows fly home.
First one..."
I know. You made up more!
Exactly.
Look up there, the crows fly home.
- First one...
- Then two...
- Then three...
- Then four...
Farewell dear crows.
You take care now.
And your teacher loved it.
Just the opposite.
Very good everyone.
But let's stick to the script.
After all that.
It wasn't a good line,
so I didn't mind.
I wasn't discouraged at all.
I realised that I could act
even when there were no lines.
Behold, the crows fly home.
- First one.
- Then two.
- Then three.
- Then four.
That was all.
It was worth the effort.
"Village Child A" was a hit.
Believe it or not.
People asked if I'd had lessons.
Teachers praised me...
Then something amazing happened.
Anyone home?
Coming.
...and then the dynamite blew up
right in my face!
...right in my face!
What? Our Taeko?
We need a girl to star
in our college play.
As a service to the community,
please let your daughter perform.
A star!
We'd rehearse Saturday afternoons.
We wouldn't take too long.
Well, but...
Of course we'd bring her
straight home.
I'll be in a real play.
Not with a bunch of kids
but with real grown-ups!
I'll be a star!
Oh, oh, oh,
oh what a wonderful day
Cock-a-doodle-doo!
Mother!
So? So?
A nice boy from the university
wants you in their drama.
You were so good
in the school play.
And? And?
He practically begged me!
Wow that's great!
At least you're good at something.
She writes good essays too.
She's certainly better at that
than she is at math.
That's right. That's right.
I was lead in "The Poor Sparrow"
but no one came for me.
You see, you see!
Are you going to do it?
This could lead to a career.
Join the Takarazuka Theatre.
Start rehearsing now,
it's perfect timing.
Acting is out.
Show business people
are no good.
"Show business"...
don't exaggerate...
That's right. It's...
I said no.
Dinner.
Father's so stubborn.
Why did you have to
mention a career?
- Can I bathe first?
- Sure.
Or Takarazuka?
Or show business?
You know Dad...
Why did you say that Nanako?
That's enough.
Poor boy, poor boy,
Don't you feel sorry for me?
We won't take much of her time.
I know but...
I beg you.
She's rather shy...
the timid type...
Sorry you came so far for nothing.
Poor boy, poor boy...
...Such a long way from home...
Poor boy
Aoki's going to play the part instead.
I see.
She's boasting to everyone.
Today her Mum met her at school
to get her changed into a fancy dress.
A frilly thing out to here...
Don't tell anyone
you got the first offer.
Because that would hurt
Aoki very much.
Do you understand?
Breaking through the waves
Shooting through the clouds
Where is it heading, Hyokkori Pumpkin
Island? Where will it take us?
Something special waits for us,
just over the horizon
There'll be hard times,
there'll be sad times,
but we'll never lose heart
We hate to cry,
so let's laugh instead
Let's go!
Hyokkori Pumpkin Island!
Poor you.
I joined the drama group
in high school.
I couldn't forget what had happened.
And then?
It was a lot of fun, acting and all...
but it wasn't for me.
As for becoming a star...
that was a joke.
But...
I guess Dads are the same all over.
When I was in high school,
I so wanted to live in Tokyo.
I even wrote to my cousin
about schools there.
Did you really?
I gave up. But it annoyed me
to hear other guys
bragging about life in Tokyo.
Not anymore though.
I respect my Dad...
He's an expert farmer.
But I know how you felt.
Mine's just a funny story.
No it's the same, I understand.
But we'll never lose heart, we hate
to cry, so let's laugh instead.
I also watched
Hyokkori Pumpkin Island.
Really?
Machine Gun Dandy was so cool.
He was my hero!
Of course.
Those songs were full
of encouragement.
What was that other one?
"If today's no good,
you'll have tomorrow"
"If tomorrow's no good,
you'll have the next day"
"If that's no good,
there'll be another"
"There's always a tomorrow"
What a weird song!
That song, about putting things off,
Toshio took
in a positive, affirmative way.
I liked his approach to life.
You're going tomorrow?
Thank you for having me for so long.
Thank you, my dear.
Do you like it here?
Very much. I feel so at home.
Glad to hear it.
I've lived here all my life.
Been to Tokyo just once.
For your sister's wedding.
You think it's better than Tokyo?
Without a doubt.
Tokyo's packed with cars, buildings...
People shouldn't live like that.
This is a different world.
You really like it here then?
Yes. The nice surroundings,
the kind people...
Taeko.
Why don't you live here? With Toshio?
Since his brother moved to Tokyo,
why don't you stay here
and marry Toshio?
Granny!
Mother... you've gone too far!
Taeko's shocked.
Please think it over.
Don't pay any attention. She's joking.
Joking, right, Granny?
No. I'm serious.
Don't deny you wouldn't like it.
It's not a matter of what we'd like...
Of course we'd love it.
But Taeko's a city person.
Of course.
But she loves it here,
she works so hard on the land,
it's a joy to watch.
There'd be nothing better
than her marrying Toshio.
You're being rude.
You're embarrasing her.
She's got a decent job in Tokyo.
Besides, she's older than him.
There are jobs in Yamagata too.
Please don't be angry.
Most of the young wives
work these days, so...
What're you talking about?
She's only been here
twice on holiday.
Suddenly bringing this up...
you're upsetting her.
So you're against it?
I didn't say that.
I said let's be realistic.
We don't even know
how Toshio feels.
One look at him and it's obvious.
Don't dismiss it before
we've asked her.
Taeko!
Let her be.
See what you did.
You can't rush these things.
I don't think I was wrong.
I'd never even thought
of being a farmer's wife.
I was strangely moved,
even imagining it might be possible.
If only I could've replied:
"I'd love to..." like in a movie.
But I couldn't.
Suddenly my love of the country,
and my play-farming,
seemed so phony.
Declaring my love for country life
based on a ten day vacation,
now felt so embarrassing.
Then with no warning...
everyone seeing right through me.
It was unbearable.
I ain't shaking hands with you.
That shirt he wore today...
What about it?
Tanaka's old shirt.
Don't tell anyone.
When it's his turn to feed the ducks,
he takes the bread home.
Did you see his hands?
Glad he's not sitting next to me.
Poor Taeko.
Have him switch places.
He should sit with the boys.
Right Taeko?
I don't mind.
You shouldn't talk like that.
You don't mind?
Don't be a goody-goody.
Don't you dare tell anyone
what we said.
I'll beat you up!
Don't go!
What are you doing out here?
Nothing. Taking a walk.
You're getting wet. Quick, get in.
A little souvenir.
Some of Mum's pickles.
Please don't go back yet.
Why not?
Just drive... anywhere.
Something wrong?
I knew a boy named Abe.
He came from another school.
He sat next to me.
He once said,
"I ain't shaking hands with you."
His family was poor.
He never had sports gear.
Always picking his nose
or wiping it on his sleeve...
And if I complained or
even dared frown at him,
he'd threaten to hit me.
I hated it. I longed for
the end of the term,
so we could change seats.
I hated holding hands
in dance class,
hated having to lend him
my homework.
The girls gossipped
and called him names.
But I wouldn't join in.
I thought it was terrible
to talk behind his back.
But one day...
He was transferred in
the middle of the term.
The teacher made us all
shake hands and say goodbye.
A feeling of disgust swept the room.
His hands were filthy.
Walking around,
shaking hands with us,
he looked so nervous.
Back at his own desk,
only I was left.
When I held out my hand he said,
"I ain't shaking hands with you."
I hated him the most.
He knew that.
That's why he didn't shake my hand.
What happened at the farmhouse?
Ever since I was little...
I just pretend to be nice.
Nothing's changed.
You're strange, today.
Not the usual you.
I don't know what happened, but...
It's nothing to do with that.
I'm sorry.
I just feel bad about what happened.
I think that boy was stupid.
Maybe he didn't shake your hand
because he liked you.
No, he liked the class president.
He was always acting tough with me.
Hands in pockets, spitting,
swearing, swaggering along,
...showing off.
Exactly.
I know how he feels.
When I was little,
I used to bully the girl I liked.
That's not it.
He shook hands with everyone but me.
There's the problem.
Girls never understand how boys feel.
As if you know...
Let me guess, then...
He wasn't that tough.
He couldn't bully any boys.
He had no friends.
You sat next to him, an easy target.
He needed you to be tough with.
No way he wanted
to shake hands with everyone.
He could only prove how
tough he was with you.
Don't be filthy!
I felt so guilty and so sorry for him
that I began copying him.
Too late though, huh?
I couldn't take back
the pain I caused him.
It's stopped raining.
Oh, yes.
The moon's out.
Sometimes at night
you see raccoons here.
Shall we go back?
They must be worried about me.
This'll be the talk of the town.
I'm sorry. You've been so kind.
I wonder what happened
at the house, though?
Please, for my sake,
don't ask anyone.
Shall I play that music?
I began to think of
my feelings for him,
and of his feelings for me,
for the very first time.
How come he seemed to sort out
my mixed-up thoughts?
How come I let him get so close?
Somehow he seemed older than me.
He was the one I wanted
to shake hands with.
Just shake hands?
What was this feeling?
My mind raced as I sat beside him.
Have you got everything?
Yes, I'm fine.
We'll see you in the winter.
I'll do my farming homework.
What about skiing?
That just takes practice.
Consider what I said, Taeko.
What's that?
What?
That's our secret.
Something was strange yesterday.
Sorry. Next time I'll be fine,
I'll leave the ten year-old me,
at home.
Wait for me!
Take care Naoko.
Goodbye.
Some say love, it is a river
that drowns the tender reed.
Some say love, it is a razor
that leaves your soul to bleed.
Some say love, it is a hunger,
an endless aching need.
I say love, it is a flower,
and you its only seed.
It's the heart, afraid of breaking,
that never learns to dance.
It's the dream, afraid of waking,
that never takes a chance.
It's the one who won't be taken.
Who cannot seem to give.
And the soul, afraid of dyin',
that never learns to live.
When the night has been too lonely
and the road has been too long,
And you think that love is only
for the lucky and the strong,
Just remember in the winter
far beneath the bitter snows.
Lies the seed,
that with the sun's love,
in the Spring becomes the Rose.
English translation by
Kennedy Taylor, Aya Futami,
Nao Amisaki & Steve Alpert
English subtitles by
AURA and Nippon Cine Arts
Production
Studio Ghibli
© 1991 Hotaru Okamoto
Yuko Tone -TNHG
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org